<div style="text-align: justify; text-justify: inter-word; line-height: 2">


According to the Oxford English Dictionary, 'pride' is "an excessively high, opinion of one's own worth or importance which gives rise to a feeling or attitude of superiority over others". *Antigone*, written by Sophocles in 441 BC was the basis for Kamila Shamsie's 2017 novel, *Home Fire*. Antigone is a Greek tragedy play featuring a tragic hero and a plot conformant to the attributes of Greek tragedy. *Home Fire* follows the tragic hero plot outline in a series of sections, each privileging a different character in the third person restricted point of view. Both Sophocles and Shamsie warn readers of the intolerance of opposing ideas, blindness, and arrogant righteousness that can be a product of pride through the techniques and characteristics of the forms, play, and novel respectively. This essay will initially explore, a discussion of how the relationships of the tragic heroes, Creon and Karamat contribute to a warning about pride. Then, an investigation into dramatic irony and its use in *Antigone* and *Home Fire* to show this message. Finally, an analysis of narrative perspective and the structure of the novel and play in relation to their contributions to this warning.

Dialogue in professional relationships is used to further the characterisation of the tragic hero characters Karamat and Creon as obdurate and dismissive. The ugly combination of Creon's autocratic leadership and his hubris makes him someone disrespectful towards the working citizens of the state. Sophocles makes the sentry's appearance on lines 207-219 seem rambly and scattered by the use of long, compound sentences and dramatic monologue such as "Wretch, are you wasting your time again?". Sophocles' use of rhetorical questions shows the sentry's uncertainty and vulnerability with himself. Creon mocks and then threatens the vulnerable sentry on lines 279-280 by saying "death alone will not be enough for you \[if the sentry does not find the culprit of the burial\]". Creon's threat towards the sentry shows a disregard and lack of humanity, adding to his larger inflexible characterisation. In addition, Sophocles shows Creon's obdurate nature even in the face of an "objective truth" (Sophocles et al. 74). Sophocles shows that Creon is aware of Teiresias' power on line 971 as he "shudders" at Teiresias' insinuation that he has broken the laws of the gods. However, after Teiresias delivers his speech that contradicts Creon's position, he discounts it by saying Teiresias is "in love with money" and "injustice". In slight contrast, Karamat is not an autocratic leader, but the disrespect towards employees (particularly James) remains from *Antigone*. James, like the sentry, has a respect towards Creon that is not mutual. This is shown best by the interaction between the characters on page 241 where Karamat says "Would I \[put my son on a plane back to Britain from Pakistan\] if he weren't my son?" and James replies with a sensical reminder of Eamonn's relationship to Karamat: "With respect, sir, he is your son", to which Karamat retaliates: "With respect, James, he's a British national who made a choice and has to face the consequences. As any other British national would". The choice by Shamsie to emulate James' sentence structure makes Karamat appear passive-aggressive and obdurate to his suggestion. The dialogue in the professional relationships of both Creon and Karamat reveals an obdurate nature, and in Creon's case, an additional threatening element, towards the differing opinions of people working below them. 

Dramatic irony is used through the portrayal of the tragic heroes, Karamat and Creon, to show the dangers of pride. "The ancient Greeks were the first to create a democracy" (Democracy (Ancient Greece)), in *Antigone*, Sophocles presents dramatic irony between how Creon views his autocratic leadership and how Sophocles expects the democracy-loving Ancient Greek audience to respond. The Ancient Greek audience would have been sceptical of Creon, especially so in response to lines 268-269: "instead of keeping their necks under the yoke and accepting me, as they should, they toss their heads in rebellion". Another example of dramatic irony is between the audience's knowledge of Tiresias' righteousness and Creon's persistence that "the whole breed or seers is in love with money" on line 1021. Sophocles uses dramatic irony to show Creon's unwillingness to accept alternate perspectives. Similarly, the irony shown between Karamat's statement in an interview about Aneeka's case on page 231: "I hate the Muslims who make people hate Muslims" and Shamsie's characterisation of Aneeka as a loyal, family oriented and faithful character. The effect of dramatic irony in both *Antigone* and *Home Fire* shows a blindness towards other views and people in Creon and Karamat's life, to ultimately further their hubris and to reveal the dangers of pride.

Despite their structural differences, both *Antigone* and *Home Fire* present structures and narrative perspectives that further the warning put forward by the texts. The segmented structure of *Home Fire* follows the lives of Isma, Eamonn, Parvaiz, Aneeka and Karamat through 5 sections dedicated to each character respectively. The novel has a consistent third-person restricted narrative perspective, privileging the character of the current section. Shamsie orders the sections purposefully; she puts minor characters near the start to aid the audience in grasping the novel, foreshadow the oncoming conflict, establish its characters (particularly in Isma's section), and give context to Aneeka's section and its scrapbook of memories. Shamsie can fully explore Aneeka's grief by bringing us into Aneeka's disarrayed mind with fragments of story. This structure, showing all sides of the story that oppose Karamat's view before his own, allows the reader (who in the post 9/11 world of 2017 may well be Islamophobic) to appreciate the dramatic irony of Karamat's hamartia in his section. *Antigone*, on the other hand, does not have the ubiquity of the tragic hero's hamartia among the audience to contend with. *Antigone* has an episodic structure, interspersed with choral odes. In contrast to *Home Fire*, *Antigone* is a strictly linear telling of events occurring over a single day, whereas *Home Fire* changes temporal setting between sections. The effect of this in *Antigone* is to emphasise the tragic hero timeline that the play follows. The play follows Creon's thought process through his learning (and denial) of new information and eventual begrudging acceptance of the reality that Tiresias puts forward. The effect of this is to accentuate the tragic hero archetype and to make moments of peripeteia and anagnorisis very clear to the audience. Both texts help to show the dangers of pride through structure and narrative perspective in distinctly different but effective ways.

Both Sophocles and Shamsie warn readers of the intolerance of opposing ideas, blindness and arrogant righteousness that pride can generate through the techniques and characteristics of the forms, play, and novel respectively.

In what ways, and to what effect, do Sophocles and Shamsie explore the dangers of pride? With what warning are readers ultimately left?

Sophocles and Shamsie warn against pride, showing its dangers and possible effects. They show a blindness that can form, intolerance of opposing ideas and arrogant righteousness through the structure, use of characterisation and dramatic irony and the relationships that the tragic heroes form. The structure of *Home Fire* is particularly demonstrative of this as Shamsie builds toward an ultimate demonstration of hubris and irony in her final section. *Antigone* and *Home Fire* both show how pride can affect relationships with others, particularly employees and workmates. Conclusively, the ways and effects of Sophocles and Shamsie's texts can be distilled to the warning left by Sophocles: "The mighty words of overproud men with mighty blows are punished".
</div>
<div style="page-break-before: always;"></div>

## Works cited
Sophocles, et al. *Antigone*. Cambridge University Press, 2003.

*Democracy (Ancient Greece)*. https://education.nationalgeographic.org/resource/democracy-ancient-greece. Accessed 31 July 2022.

"pride, n.1." *OED Online*, Oxford University Press, June 2022, www.oed.com/view/Entry/151185. Accessed 28 July 2022. 