# How do we distinguish between good and bad interpretations of artworks?
Looking for authority is one way we may be able to distinguish between good and bad interpretations of artworks. The authority of an interpretation is informally determined by the interpreter's wealth, experience and connections in the field of art they interpret in. Examples of generally accepted authoritative interpreters include art critics, music reviewers, artists, and prolific art purchasers. Judging an interpretation based upon its authority works in some cases. Beethoven's 'Eroica' is often praised by music reviewers as a turning point in western music history (NPR 2006), it was voted the greatest symphony of all time by 151 conductors at BBC Music Magazine (Brown 2016). As is evident from western popular music, Beethoven's work is "an instant turn off" for many people (Jenkins 2003). However, 'Eroica' "is revolutionary in form" and "expressed more the feelings of the inner self" (Jenkins 2003). Critics and authoritative interpretations bring a level of understanding that Beethoven's music is technically impressive and stunning to those that do not understand. 

In Beethoven's case, interpreters have the benefit of hindsight to see the vast effects of it within greater temporal parameters. Interpreters of Andy Warhol did not have this hindsight and were missing much of the grounds for his greatness (influencing emerging genres of art) which arrived in subsequent decades. Authoritative interpretations of Warhol's art varied wildly from critical to glowing at the time because of a freshness to his approach but also a sheer lack of technical skill — Warhol would copy and print commercial art as his own (The Art Assignment 2015). Warhol's art would look 'bad' in comparison to the technical complexity of art from Paris or even other competing artists in NYC. Warhol and Beethoven's art combine to form a picture of authoritative interpretations that positions them as interpretations based on comparisons streaming from their knowledge in the field and evaluations of technical complexity. 

Subjectivism is an alternative way to view interpretations: no single or combination of interpretations is solely correct. Subjectivism is helpful in some ways but is sometimes incompatible with ethics. Mark Rothko is an artist whose works rely heavily on subjectivism. His artworks may seem to have little meaning on the surface but are extremely considered in every detail. In Rothko's art, knowledge is extracted by each individual that views his art rather than him applying knowledge to them. The simplicity of Rothko's art makes interpretations very diverse, his art broadly conveys emotions and ideas that are applicable to everyone. Subjectivism works in Rothko's art, people are able to extract their own knowledge from the simple ideas that Rothko puts forward. 

In a different example, controversial Spanish artist Santiago Sierra was involved in the 2021 Tasmanian Dark Mofo Festival in his piece of performance art 'Union Jack' that, according to the ABC was to be "used to soak a British flag [with the blood of first nations peoples], as an artistic metaphor" (Cascone 2021). The premise was met with very little support due to the unethical nature of a coloniser using the blood of the colonised for the success of an event organised by colonisers (Walsh 2021). True subjectivism validates all interpretations of artworks without any other considerations. Questions of ethics can mean that holding an interpretation that opposes the ethical consensus invalidates one's interpretation, and often for good reason. This means that if ethics should be a consideration in art knowledge, then true subjectivism is not true. Subjectivism allows one to form their own interpretation and knowledge around an artwork without restraints. However, true subjectivism requires ethics to not be a consideration, which makes it unfeasible in the eyes of many people.

Distinguishing between good and bad interpretations does not work entirely in either of the perspectives put forward. Subjectivism allows diverse interpretations but it is in jeopardy with ethics and the only benefit that authoritative interpretations put forward is familiarity with the genre (enabling comparisons to other artworks and evaluation of technical ability). Possibly both of these perspectives could combine to even their pitfalls and create an interactive space where good and bad interpretations are determined by consensus. The interpretations of individuals and critics are averaged and the result becomes a model interpretation that may not be correct for everyone but provides a baseline for comparison.

<div style="page-break-after: always;"></div>

# References 
“Beethoven’s Symphony No. 3 in E Flat Major, Op. 55” 2006, _NPR_, viewed 3 July 2022, <https://www.npr.org/2006/06/07/5456722/beethovens-symphony-no-3-in-e-flat-major-op-55>.

Brown, M & correspondent, MBA 2016, “Beethoven’s Eroica voted greatest symphony of all time,” _The Guardian_, viewed 3 July 2022, <https://www.theguardian.com/music/2016/aug/04/beethoven-eroica-greatest-symphony-vote-bbc-mozart-mahler>.

Cascone, S 2021, _An Australian Arts Festival Has Canceled Artist Santiago Sierra’s Plans to Douse the British Flag in the Blood of Indigenous People_, _Artnet News_, viewed 4 July 2022, <https://news.artnet.com/art-world/santiago-sierra-dark-mofo-cancelled-1954026>.

_David’s response to Union Flag – Blog_ n.d., _Mona_, viewed 4 July 2022, <https://mona.net.au/blog/2021/03/davids-response-to-union-flag>.

Tate n.d., _Abstract expressionism_, _Tate_, viewed 3 July 2022, <https://www.tate.org.uk/art/art-terms/a/abstract-expressionism>.

The Art Assignment 2015, _The Case For Andy Warhol | The Art Assignment | PBS Digital Studios_, viewed 3 July 2022, <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7VH5MRtk9HQ>.