# Paper 1 — Humanitarian Intervention
## 1. Identify ==three main points== made by U.S. President Barack Obama in Source A about the issue of ==international intervention== in Libya
1. International intervention has the ability to stop violence in Libya
2. International intervention must work in cooperation with Libya and not with military force to be successful
3. Using military power to overthrow the regime in Libya 'would be a mistake'. Non-military force is better in this case
## 2. With ==explicit reference== to Source B, explain why humanitarian intervention can often be the cause of protests and ==controversy==
Resentment to humanitarian intervention is often the product of patriotism/allegiance and faith to ones state. This is evident in use of the word "foreign" on the sign, which connotes a divide between outside and in, that when viewed from the inside can feel demeaning or even like war. 

The theme of war continues in this poster and is best demonstrated by the military imagery that surrounds the words. The military is a common staple of humanitarian intervention which becomes problematic due to it's violent nature that makes humanitarian intervention feel much less like a helping hand. 

Humanitarian intervention may also be ill advised or have ulterior motives. Intervening countries may take the opportunity of framing an exercise of military power as humanitarian intervention to take advantage of a state in jeopardy. A fear of this is expressed in the statement 'Libyan people can manage it alone'. 

The use of a fist connotes a solidarity between Libyan people against foreign intervention. In a civil conflict, the people of a state may be unhappy with an outcome involving foreign intervention. They may prefer to have their side of the conflict win. Humanitarian intervention to seek peace may be at odds with the wants of the people.
## 3. Contrast the views of Source C and Source D regarding the legitimacy of humanitarian intervention.
Source C establishes two parts to the legitimacy of humanitarian intervention: the 'ends' and the 'means'. Source C suggests that the ends of humanitarian intervention must be lawful and humanitarian, however, the means, war, is a mismatch with this end. Source C is able to suggest that war is an unsuitable end because wars result in the death of many civilians. Source D does not necessarily disagree with either the means or the ends of humanitarian intervention, but does agree with the fact that the ends used in Libya were unsuitable. Source C and source D disagree on the realities of these means and ends. Source D seems to suggest that the means for humanitarian intervention are usually appropriate and the justifications for war in the case of Libya were a product of many stars aligning. Source C suggests that the 'military means' are a persistent problem that is 'undermining our capacity to address growing insecurity'. 

Source C does not suggest that the ends for humanitarian intervention are nothing but humanitarian and lawful in reality. Source D's explicit references to the number of ends that live outside of humanitarianism seem to suggest that reality differs from strictly humanitarian ends. Source D mentions Gaddafi as a 'villain figure who had managed to alienate nearly all UN member states', the weakness of leaders in the middle east, a lack of interest from usual opposing veto powers, the smallness of Libya, and a convenient ground force to fight the war as potential legitimising factors for the case in Libya.
## 4. Using the sources and your own knowledge, evaluate the claim that violations of human rights are no guarantee that humanitarian intervention will take place.
Humanitarian intervention, according to Heywood, "is military intervention that is carried out in pursuit of humanitarian rather than strategic objectives" (Heywood 2014, p.326). Humanitarian intervention is contested and deeply controversial for a number of reasons (Heywood 2014, p.326). The validity of the notion that violations of human rights are no guarantee that humanitarian intervention will occur is dependent the political theory you subscribe to.

The Libyan intervention of 2011 was a success by the account of western states and NATO but the use of the military may have been a mismatch for the humanitarian ends that the intervention was justified with. This mismatch between the justifications for the intervention and the actions taken by NATO caused much backlash from within Libya as proved by the anti-intervention sentiment of source B. As source C states, "the problem with the military approach is that it reinforces division". This division exists between the intervening party and the party needing to be 'saved'. As Heywood puts it, these "invariably developed western" intervening powers "possess both power and moral benevolence". This is opposed to the "conditions of chaos and barbarity" that overwhelmingly represents the western view of states subject to intervention. Source C states that military intervention is 'undermining' our ability to enact truly helpful humanitarian schemes. This may be due to the portrayal of states subject to intervention as helpless and 'liberal interventions' that seek to spread the liberal agenda rather than to achieve humanitarian ends. The resentment towards humanitarian intervention is shared among individuals subject to it, Heywood states that "wars in Afghanistan and Iraq also in many ways deepened tensions between the Islamic world and the West". These wars were framed as humanitarian intervention by supporters (Heywood 2014, p.328). The myriad of issues with military involvement in humanitarian intervention is a blocking factor in achieving true humanitarian ends. This is due to the controversy and resentment towards intervention it can cause within a state. This means that human rights violations may not guarantee a true humanitarian intervention response.

A realist would believe that an altruistic view of humanitarian intervention is incompatible with the selfishness of the state system. The most basic realist values are those of self interest in all humans and within the state (Heywood 2014, p.14). Not only does this make the realist outlook incompatible with humanitarianism, it makes it absolutely incompatible with the notion that states may, without any other motive, decide to intervene in another state in order to achieve sole humanitarian ends. This realist view that utterly disagrees with humanitarian intervention is backed up by source D, which lists the many ulterior motives that led to a humanitarian intervention failure in Libya. The Libya incident does not exist in isolation either, the war on terror and 'liberal intervention' (Heywood 2014, p.328-329), and French intervention in Rwanda (Lamy 2016, p.268) are both examples of interventions framed by some as humanitarian with many motives outside of those relating to humanitarianism. This realist view of humanitarian intervention ends with the conclusion that humanitarian intervention cannot exist solely with humanitarian motives. It must come in conjunction or only with motives that benefit the intervening state. In contrast to realism, liberals believe that humans are rational and moral beings. This allows for a view presenting humanitarian intervention as a guarantee if human rights violations are present. 

Diplomacy and international law can be another blocking factor in humanitarian intervention. Interventions are usually organised and justified with the help of the UN and international law. However, finding concrete justifications and full support for humanitarian interventions can prove difficult. This is supported by source A, where Obama states that, in relation to the events in Libya, "the world had a unique ability to stop violence 'on a horrific scale'". His language suggests that the 'world' does not have consensus in organising an intervention into Libya. Heywood reports that the veto powers of the UN may also be a concern in gaining consensus in an intervention. The veto powers "may be more concerned about issues of global power than they are with humanitarian concerns". 